Question, what would you say is one of the greatest gifts that we received from Jehovah?
Interestingly, the comment that we'll read in a few minutes from the White Star says that perhaps
one of the greatest gifts that we receive from Jehovah is our ability to worship him.
And this gift goes hand in hand with another gift that Jehovah has given us which is highlighted
in today's text. That is our ability to love. But when you think of an ability, an ability is only
of value if it is developed and if it is put to good use. For example, the child is born with the
ability to walk, but that ability will be of no value if it's not developed and not put to use.
So use our question then, how can we continue to develop our ability to love?
Let's consider two steps. Step number one, by imitating our loving father, Jehovah.
And that is what Paul encourages us to do if we reign together Ephesians chapter 5 verse 1,
where we have our first step, Ephesians 5 verse 1. You notice there are Paul says,
become imitators of God as beloved children.
Very heartwarming to think that we can be like Jehovah. We can imitate him. But the question is,
how? How can we imitate Jehovah? The answer is in the first word, Paul start by saying
therefore. Why? Well, the study note helps us to understand why. So if we take the study note
together for verse 1, you notice it says that Paul has just discussed some of God's qualities,
such as kindness, compassion and forgiveness. So by opening with the word therefore,
he suggests that contemplating or meditating on these qualities can motivate us to imitate
Jehovah. And that makes sense. It's not true that how do we imitate someone? Well, we first
start by observing and then we act. Well, same is true for imitating Jehovah. We need to observe
him, how? By studying, by meditating on his word and meditation leads to motivation,
which leads to application. But the scripture is very encouraging because you know this,
Paul did not say to imitate God as grown, grown-ups, as adults, but he says no, as beloved children.
In other words, Jehovah is reasonable in what he expects of us. The new English version
renders this verse as dear children, try to be like God. And we can have the picture of a child,
four or five years old, trying to walk with his father's shoes. Well, you know, it's not perfect,
but he's trying. But that act puts a smile on his father's face. Same is true for Jehovah. He
appreciates that we're trying to be like him. That takes us to our second step where we find it
in verse two. Paul says to go on walking in love. So that's our second step. Walking in love
just as the Christ also loved us and gave himself for us as an offering and a sacrifice
a sweet fragrance to God. Beautiful word picture when we think of the idea to walking, walking
in love. Walking is a form of exercise. So that's if Paul's saying that we need to exercise love,
we need to practice love, the easy to read version puts it, we need to live a life of love,
to live a life of love. And coming back to walking, walking is a simple form of exercise.
Paul did not say running in love, but simply walking in love, a simple form of exercise, but
but effective, effective. Love can be simple, but can be very effective. Example,
few years ago we were serving in Montreal, in Montreal, Canada, and in traveling work.
We visited a congregation and there we met a sister who has experiencing back problems.
And at the end of the visit, Crystal sent a little card expressing empathy because she herself had
a face or a dealt with back problems. Five years later, we met the sister.
And we didn't know that she still had the card. The simple act of love taught you so much that
she kept the card. And I couldn't help to think that Crystal must have taken what, maybe a few minutes
to write the card. And I must have spent countless of hours preparing talks, delivering talks.
I'm sure she didn't remember a single word. I said five years later, but she remembered the card.
She kept the card. Love, simple acts, but effective. But the point is, it's not just walking in love.
You know, there's two words precede walking in love. Paul says, go on, go on walking in love.
Because if we stop, we stop being human. And Satan knows that.
Satan knows that the best version of us, we are our best when we give love, when we receive love.
So we need to resist his efforts to dehumanize us by causing us to stop showing love.
And verse two, Paul highlights the best human example of showing love, walking in love we have,
that of Jesus Christ. And notice the equation Paul highlights here. It says, just as Christ also
loved us and gave himself. So then from this, we can extract the equation to love equals to give.
And when I think of this, to love equals to give right away, I think of our dear brothers serving on hospital
years on committees. Their love moves them to give up their time, their energy, their resources to come to the
assistance of their brothers, challenging times, the worst time ever possible, and also stressful times.
But they do it out of love, even though most of them don't have a medical background.
So this brother is definitely deserve our love and our respect. And that is also true for their families.
What is the reward then for continuing to develop our ability to love? You notice the reward at the
end of verse two, Paul talking about Jesus' sacrifice, he says, his sacrifice is a sweet fragrance
to God. While same is true for us, as we endeavor to imitate Jesus, as we endeavor to imitate
Jehovah, we can be, for Jehovah, a sweet fragrance. Or in other words, we can, you know,
cause him to have warm feelings toward us. In reality, what have we learned? We learn that we all
have the ability to love. That's why Jehovah made it a command, which is today's text. But this
ability needs to be developed. We need to continue to develop it, for it to be value or value,
for it to be useful. And we consider two ways we can do this, one, by imitating Jehovah, and two,
a simple exercise by walking in love. And when we do, we can go on to live a life of love.